docs(website): Add docsearch migration blog post (#5967)
facebook/docusaurus: website/blog/2021-11-18-algolia-docsearch-migration/index.md

---
title: DocSearch migration
authors:
  - name: Clément Vannicatte
    title: Software Engineer @ Algolia
    url: https://github.com/shortcuts
    image_url: https://github.com/shortcuts.png
    twitter: sh0rtcts
  - key: slorber

tags: [search]
image: ./img/social-card.png
---

> [DocSearch](https://docsearch.algolia.com/) is migrating to a new, more powerful system.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[DocSearch](https://docsearch.algolia.com/) is migrating to a new, more powerful system, which gives users their own Algolia application and new credentials.
```

I think it's best to state it early so they know why they should migrate

> Docusaurus site owners should upgrade their site configuration **by February 1, 2022**

Reviewer 2: Not sure it's worth it but still suggesting.
```suggestion
Docusaurus site owners with Docsearch enabled should upgrade their site configuration **by February 1, 2022**
```

Author: Probably quite implicit imho 😅

> Docusaurus site owners should upgrade their site configuration **by February 1, 2022**
> 
> Existing search indexes will be frozen and become read-only state.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Docusaurus site owners should upgrade their configuration with [their new credentials](#im-using-docusaurus-and-docsearch-can-i-migrate) **by February 1, 2022**, existing search indexes will be frozen and become read-only state after this date.
```

This seems less "critical" this way

<!--truncate-->

## Upgrading your Docusaurus site

> In the next few weeks, Docusaurus site owners will receive an email inviting them to join an Algolia application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the next few weeks, Docusaurus site owners will receive an email inviting them to join their personal Algolia application.
```

This email will include a new `appId` and `apiKey` to use in your Docusaurus configuration.

The only things you have to do:

- Join the Algolia application (eventually creating a new Algolia account)
- Update your site configuration.

```js title="docusaurus.config.js"
const config = {
  themeConfig: {
    algolia: {
      // highlight-start
      appId: '<NEW_APP_ID>',

>       apiKey: '<NEW_API_KEY>',

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      apiKey: '<NEW_SEARCH_API_KEY>',
```

      // highlight-end
    },
  },
};

module.exports = config;
```

:::info

`appId` is now **required**.

These keys are not secrets and can be added to your Git repository.

:::

## DocSearch has a new home!

### What is DocSearch?

[DocSearch](https://docsearch.algolia.com/) is a program created by [Algolia](http://algolia.com/), which offers search to technical documentation of Open Source projects and technical blogs **for free**.

You can [read more here](https://docsearch.algolia.com/docs/what-is-docsearch/), and [apply](https://docsearch.algolia.com/apply) if you'd like to give it a try!

## What is this migration about?

> ### Motivations

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### Motivation
```

![Algolia config editor](./img/editor.png)

But also, more Algolia features in **your own Algolia app**:

- Team management
- Browse and see how your records are indexed in Algolia
- Try other Algolia features with free trials

![Algolia index overview](./img/index-overview.png)

![Algolia index analytics](./img/index-analytics.png)

And of course, **a lot more, for free**.

## FAQ

### I'm using Docusaurus and DocSearch, can I migrate?

At the time we are writing this, we are still at an early stage of the migration. We are doing small batches every week but will increase the load shortly, so please be patient and keep an eye out in your mailbox, you'll be contacted as soon as your Algolia app is ready!

### Where can I read more about this?

We wrote a small [migration guide](https://docsearch.algolia.com/docs/migrating-from-legacy) but you'll have more detailed information in the migration email.

### I received the migration email but the invite expired

Please contact us via either [email](mailto:docsearch@algolia.com) or [DocSearch's Discord](https://discord.gg/bRTacwYrfX) or on [Docusaurus's Discord #algolia channel](https://discordapp.com/invite/docusaurus)

> ### I have feedbacks!

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### I have feedback!
```

For any feedback regarding our documentation or the DocSearch UI component, you can open an issue [on our GitHub repository](https://github.com/algolia/docsearch/issues), but also contact us via the methods above.

### Can I still run my own DocSearch instance?

> In favor of the new infrastructure and DocSearch v3, we will no longer maintain our beloved [DocSearch scraper](https://github.com/algolia/docsearch-scraper) and [DocSearch v2](https://github.com/algolia/docsearch/tree/master), but the repositories will still be available and open to pull requests.

Reviewer 2: Just personal feeling not strong suggestion
```suggestion
In favor of the new infrastructure and DocSearch v3, [DocSearch scraper](https://github.com/algolia/docsearch-scraper) and [DocSearch v2](https://github.com/algolia/docsearch/tree/master) will enter maintenance mode, those repositories will always be available and open to pull requests.
```

Author: That seems good enough to me and make it clearer that the scraper is not part of the "in favor" list of items.

This sentence is not very easy to read IMHO and could be totally rewritten (Hemingway app agrees).

But this blog post does not need to be 100% perfect either, so I'm going to move on and merge as is. Open to changes after publication if you feel it's important.
